---
title: "Toward reliable signals decoding for electroencephalogram: A benchmark study to EEGNeX"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2022-07-15-EEGNeX
excerpt: ''
date: 2022-10-24
venue: 'Arxiv'
paperurl: ''
citation: '<i>Chen, X., Teng, X., Chenc, H., Pan, Y. and Geyer, P., 2022. Toward reliable signals decoding for electroencephalogram: A benchmark study to EEGNeX. arXiv preprint arXiv:2207.12369.</i>'
---

**Abstract**: This study aims to establish an essential milestone by leveraging an exhaustive performance analysis of common Neural networks’ (NNs) capability to decipher mental representations from electroencephalogram (EEG) signals recorded in representative classification tasks. Methods: In this study, 14 mechanism-wise different, typical NN types and their variants were first constructed to decode EEG signals to compare their information representation capability based on four brain-computer interfaces BCI paradigms. Based on throughout literature review and the result, we gradually develop improvements to propose a novel, pure convolutional NN architecture: EEGNeX. We tested EEGNeX with existing advanced approaches and Mother of All BCI Benchmarks (MOABB), a large-scale test benchmark containing experiments in 11 different EEG motor imagination (MI) datasets.  Results: The result reveals vital insights regarding the reliable development of the network architecture in BCI signal feature extraction and representation learning. EEGNeX outperforms other current state-of-the-art methods. Modifications are proven beneficial in universal NN improvement with statistical significance over EEGNet and common approaches. Four pillars are summarized to design NNs for efficient design EEG signal decoding. Significance: The study lightens a pathway based on the analysis results to gradually develop general improvements for analogy investigations between the brain bioelectric signal generation process and NN architecture. A novel NN architecture: EEGNeX, is proposed. We open-sourced all models in an out-of-the-box status (https://github.com/chenxiachan/EEGNeX) to support further interdisciplinary studies.

[Download paper here](https://arxiv.org/abs/2207.12369)<br>
[Code](https://github.com/chenxiachan/EEGNeX)

**Citation**:<i> Chen, X., Teng, X., Chenc, H., Pan, Y. and Geyer, P., 2022. EEGNeX: An Improved Spatio-Temporal ConvNet for Electroencephalography Signals Decoding. arXiv preprint arXiv:2207.12369.</i>
